## In-game communications
This section of the guidelines will go in-depth about interactions with other players in CPUF. In general, when you are talking, please ensure you abide by all HS and HSPS rules, especially HSPS Rule 4 (Act Professional).

### When On Duty
- Your primary communication channel should be team chat. Do not speak in public chat unless it’s absolutely necessary (Ie: Answering a question, Coordinating a shutdown, etc.)
- Please double-check that your messages are being sent to the intended place. If you mean to communicate in team chat, ensure your message is being sent there. Mistakes happen, but they should not happen often.

#### Roblox Voice
Spatial voice is prohibited on-shift for anyone who is not Pre-Command or higher for a multitude of reasons.
- In Spatial Voice, there's no differentiated "team chat", your speech is able to be heard by everyone nearby.
- Numerous players, both guards and employees, may not utilize or have access to Spatial Voice. Consequently, if you employ it, not everyone may have the ability to hear you.
- We have Discord voice channels for a reason, there is no reason to use Spatial Voice.
If you're addressed via Spatial Voice, reply using text chat. If you encounter pressure to use a microphone, treat it as you would any other form of harassment. Pre-Command and above may use Spatial Voice responsibly, but it's strongly advised to not do so for the reasons stated above.

### When Off Duty
When you are not on duty, you are not expected to follow any of the above rules as you are not acting in the official capacity of a guard. Please note that behavior that reflects on HSPS is still punishable under HSPS rules 4 and 6.