## Ranks
We have many ranks within our department. Below they are described in detail, including how the rank is obtained.
You can also see the respective rank tags in parentheses. These tags are used in the HSPS Discord server.

### -- Low Ranks --

#### Cadet
Cadet is the entry rank into HSPS.
How to obtain: 
- Pass the HSPS Application.

#### Junior Guardsman (JG)
Junior Guardsman is the first official rank that you can earn in HSPS. You get this rank by passing the Cadet Training Program.
How to obtain: 
- Pass Cadet Academy stages 1, 2 and 3.

#### Guardsman (GDM)
Guardsman is one of the ranks in HSPS. GDM gain the ability to issue orders to lower-ranked guards, as well as lead others. They are permitted to wear the “Advanced Security” uniform during Code Orange.
How to obtain: 
- Be active and don’t cause trouble
- 30 Points + 10 In-Game Hours.

#### Senior Guardsman (SG)
Senior Guardsman is the second highest of the low ranks in HSPS. SG have shown great activity and knowledge traits to have earnt this rank. They are permitted to wear the “Riot Security” uniform during Code Orange.
How to obtain: 
- Fulfill the previous requirements, but step it up a little
- 70 Points + 40 In-Game Hours.

#### Elite Guardsman (EG)
Elite Guardsman is the highest low rank in HSPS. If you have reached this rank, you are considered experienced in what you do within HSPS. You are being observed for a possible promotion to Specalist, one of the first MR ranks. Most people will hit a "brick wall" at this rank, and have difficulty progressing. They are permitted to use "REDACTED".
How to obtain:
- Unknown at this time until further notice. 


### -- Middle Ranks --

#### Specialist (SPC)
Specialist is the first MR position. Specialists are expected to be competent leaders and lead lower-ranked guards into battle. They are allowed to co-host HSPS-wide patrols and co-host Cadet Stage 3 Trainings. They are permitted to wear the “Heavy Security” uniform during Code Orange.
How to obtain: 
- Fulfill the previous requirements 
- Be an upstanding guard
- Demonstrate leadership traits
- 120 Points + 75 In-Game Hours
- Have Active Commendations (Recommended).

#### Senior Specialist (SSPC)
Senior Specialists are individuals who have proven themselves to be capable of leading others without a second thought. Senior Specialists unlock the ability to host HSPS-wide patrols on their own.
How to obtain: 
- Fulfill the previous requirements 
- Demonstrate that you can lead others 
- Show that we can entrust you with power
- 200 Points + 125 In-Game Hours
- Have Active Commendations (Recommended).


#### Officer (OFC)
Officers are guards who have demonstrated that they can be trusted with important tasks, such as leading other guards, hosting patrols with ease, maintaining professionalism at all times and representing HSPS in the proper light.
How to obtain: 
- Fulfill the previous requirements 
- Host Patrols flawlessly showcasing your leadership skills
- Possess advanced leadership skills 
- 370 Points + 175 In-Game Hours
- Have Active Commendations (Recommended).


### -- High Ranks --

### Pre-Command

#### Junior Instructor (J. INS)
Junior Instructors are members of HSPS who have shown that they are competent enough to take on the job of HSPS’s backbone operations. They deal with day-to-day operations within HSPS, host trainings, deal with reports, etc.

#### Instructor (INS)
Instructors are Junior Instructors who have excelled at their work and have been granted the privilege of holding this rank. They are the most senior obtainable rank in HSPS that can have more than one person. If they say something to you, it is almost guaranteed that they are correct, given their knowledge and experience within HSPS.

### Command

#### Deputy Director (DD)
The Deputy Director is the Second in Command of HSPS. They are allowed to handle reports that regard members of Pre-Command, as well as overrule sections of HSPS Guidelines at will. The current Deputy Director is Tilted_Cr3atura.

#### Director of Defense (DoD)
The Director is the Leader of HSPS, only outranked by the Owner of High Science, Daeny_1000. They are allowed to handle reports that regard members of Pre-Command and the Deputy Director, as well as overrule/edit sections of HSPS Guidelines at will. The current Director is Astropulent.

### -- Miscellaneous --

#### Staff
Staff is an unofficial rank within HSPS. Staff are members of the High Science Moderation team who are permitted access to some portions of HSPS operations. Pre-Command and above outrank Staff members in HSPS matters.

#### Management
Management are members of the High Science Administration Team who are permitted access to all portions of HSPS operations. Pre-Command and above outrank Management members in HSPS matters.
