## Disciplinary Actions
Here at HSPS, we have a disciplinary system that all members of Pre-Command stick to. Disciplinary actions are given at the discretion of officers and Pre-Command.

### Commendations
Commendations are issued at the discretion of Officers and above when something you did was considered exemplary. Commendations are issued on the go and do not require hard evidence as it’s only issued when such behavior is witnessed. Commendations get removed three months after they have been issued.

### Reprimands
Reprimands are issued at the discretion of Officers and above when something you did was considered incorrect, negligent, or generally frowned upon. You don’t have to specifically get a reprimand for breaking rules, but rather your general actions. Reprimands get removed six months after they have been issued.

### Strikes
Strikes are issued at the discretion of Junior Instructors and above when something you did breached HSPS or High Science rules. Strikes are the intermediate version of punishments and stick out during promotions.

#### Types of Strikes
As of writing, there are only two types of strikes
- 1: Disciplinary strikes
  - Disciplinary strikes are strikes that are issued regarding behavior or any other sort of HSPS/HS rule breach.
- 2: Quota Strikes
  - Quota strikes are strikes that are issued for not meeting the quota within a quota cycle.

#### Strike System
We follow a strict strike system that applies to all members of HSPS; guards and instructors alike. The strike system is as follows:
1. First strike: No consequences
2. Second strike: Demotion by one rank^
3. Third strike: Demotion by one rank^
4. Fourth strike: Termination

*Punishments may vary depending on the severity of the offense.*

^ = If you can be demoted. For example, if a Guard was on their second strike, they would be immediately terminated, as we don’t __demote to recruit.__

#### Getting rid of strikes
We believe everyone should be given a proper chance to show that they have improved after disciplinary action has been taken against them.
There are two ways of getting your strikes removed:
- 1: Objecting to a Strike 
  - If you think a strike that was issued is unfair, you are able to object to it immediately after it has been issued. Strike objections have a limit, meaning, if you don’t submit your objection within seven days of it being issued, you will not be able to object to it.
- 2: Getting a Strike Reviewed
  - If you believe that your behavior has improved since a strike has been issued, you are able to file a strike review 2 months after it was issued. Here, Pre-Command will decide whether or not your strike should be lifted. If your appeal is denied, you will have to wait 4 months to request another review.

### Suspensions
Suspensions are generally issued when someone breaches HS/HSPS rules or guidelines, with multiple past incidents. Suspensions are heavy punishments and are taken into consideration when promoting people.

### Terminations
Terminations are the heaviest version of punishments. Before a direct termination is issued, Pre-Command and above convene to decide if a termination is warranted. You can also get terminated for acquiring 4 strikes on the spot.