## Activity & Quota
As a member of HSPS, you are expected to be at least somewhat active within HSPS and the HS community. If you need to file an LOA, do so in #leave-of-absence (make sure to read the pinned message).

### Current Quota
(As of Nov. 3rd, 2024)
__In-Game Activity (Shifts)__ - 2 hours (120 mins) per 2 weeks
**OR**
__Training Attendance__ - 1 time per 2 weeks.

Quota checks are performed every 2 weeks on Sundays, starting from 2024-11-17.

### Quota Rules
As we have this system in place, we have certain rules for our guards to follow.

#### Quota Rule 1: AFKing on shift is not allowed
We do not permit guards going AFK during their shift. If you need to go AFK for some period of time, please head to a security area or security spawn. Furthermore, if you need to be AFK for an extended period of time, please end your shift and get the off team to deal with your situation.

#### Quota Rule 2: You are allowed to log up to 8 hours of quota per day
We care about your health and don’t support excessive playtime. Take regular breaks and monitor your health while on duty. If you feel ill, we recommend not getting on at all.

#### Quota Rule 3: Logging shifts on private servers is not allowed
In case of manual shift logging system being in place, you are not allowed to log shifts on private servers. Shift logging is allowed only on public servers and special events if permitted by HSPS leadership.

#### Leave Of Absence:
While on Leave of Absence, you are exempt from the quota and you are allowed to attend any events that may occur while your LOA is active, however we advise you to take a break from the game while your LoA is ongoing as your health always takes priority.

#### Manual shift logging:
When manual shift logging is in place, you may manually start your shift using /shift start and end it using /shift end in #shift-commands. To end your shift you need to attach image evidence. Valid evidence is any screenshot of you in the Security team showing your entire Roblox client taken during the shift.
