## Security Protocols

### White Night
**White Night** can be issued by **Guardsman+.**
You can issue White Night when the following requirements are met
1. The employees attempting to destabilize the reactor have gone out of Security control;
2. Temperature is outside safe limits (Above 75,000 or below 20,000 kelvin)

White Night regulations are as follows;
- Notify on-duty security in team chat by saying “White Night has been issued.”
- You must inform employees that they are required to leave the RCR or face termination.
  - You need to give them 15 seconds to comply with that order.
- You need to re-inform employees once every 3 minutes that the reactor control room is under lockdown.
- The protocol can be active for a maximum of 15 minutes and **must** be lifted within 2 minutes of ECFR reaching safe temperatures (25,000K to 70,000 K)
- The Coolant Pump Room may also be locked down.
- Individual employees may be whitelisted. Whitelisted employees can stay in the control room and coolant pump room as long as they don't try to destabilize the reactor in any way.

### Operation Fortitude
**Operation Fortitude** can be issued by **Specialist+.**
You can issue Operation Fortitude when the following requirements are met:
1. The Code is Blue or lower.
2. There are CFs targeting a specific vital area.
3. The ratio of Security to CF is maximum 1:2.5 (Heavy Armor CF = 2 CF)
4. There are at least 3 security on duty.
5. Security is unable to secure the area CF are holding.

Fortitude regulations are as follows;
- Notify on-duty security in team chat by saying “Fortitude is Active.”
- All guards can put on any armor available to them.
- Fortitude may be active for a maximum of 10 minutes, or until the region is secure for at least 5 minutes.
- There is a cooldown of 30 minutes from when the protocol gets lifted.

### Precommand+ Protection
**PC+ Protection** can be issued by a member of Precommand+. HSPS personnel should not privately request protection initiation and must prioritize their regular duties.
Protection statuses:
- Roam: All guards are free to patrol and resume their regular duties. They should not provide protection to anyone.
- Optional: A maximum of one guard per PC+ member is allowed. HSPS personnel are not obligated to protect the individual.
- Protect: Up to two guards must protect PC+ members at all times until instructed to switch to Roam or Optional status.
*If it's Code Orange or above or 1+ CF is on the server, HSPS personnel will automatically be in Roam and must respond to events immediately.*

During protection:
- No employees should approach the Pre-command+ member (later referred to as VIP), shine lights at VIP or any other HSPS personnel. A single warning to back off is permitted; if the warning is ignored, you are authorized to terminate the individual.
- Employees who jump onto HSPS personnel or VIPs are to be terminated on sight.
- It is highly recommended to always remain close to your VIP, ideally forming a wedge or a VIP box around them (you can look up what a VIP box is for more information).
