## Facility Codes
Facility codes help convey the overall threat level and status in a quick and simple manner. This list is ordered from least severe ("lowest") to most severe ("highest"). The most severe code applicable overrides lower codes (for example, if only the requirements for code orange and code red are met, it's just code red).

### Code Green
Code Green indicates there is no imminent threat within the facility and the facility is in normal operations. The facility is in code green:

- At the start of the shift.
- If no facility destruction methods are being prepared in any way.

You are permitted to help operators with any questions they may have and help with running the ECFR. You should also defend the facility from CF, focus on Warhead, FFD and ECFR.

### Code Blue
Code Blue means there is a minor threat within the facility that may escalate if it is not dealt with. Code Blue is active if:

- The FFD terminal or Warhead laptop is hacked.
  - Code Blue is **not** active if the Warhead laptop is hacked while Warhead is locked due to being cancelled twice, or if the FFD terminal is hacked while FFD is locked.

### Code Orange
Code Orange indicates a moderate threat within the facility that might require further attention. 

Code Orange is active if:

-  the computer core is in emergency mode 
-  the warhead protocol is engaged (after the 1st warhead announcement plays until the warhead is cancelled)
-  the ECFR is outside safe operating temperatures (Above 70,000K, below 30,000K)



### Code Red

Code Red indicates a severe threat within the facility.

Code Red is active if:

- The T-SD-02 control panel is activated (the red switch has been operated)
- The warhead is charging or is charged and awaiting activation
- The ECFR temperature is above 80,000 Kelvin.



### Code Black

Code Black indicates that the facility is in imminent danger of being destroyed.

**Security guards must attempt to prevent the destruction of the facility (if possible) and protect data.**

Code Black is active if:

- The warhead is detonating (after the final button was pressed).
- FFD is engaged (after the final button was pressed).
- ECFR is in a meltdown.

You should prioritize aborting FFD (shut down servers) and/or shutting down the ECFR, however use your best judgement to determine the best course of action.

#### Additional information
It should be noted that the responsibility of what to prioritize is up to the guard that is in that situation. The above priority requirements are broad, and generalize all situations into one, however not all situations are the same. Use your best judgement to decide what you want to protect and prioritize.