## Warnings
Warnings are the type of disciplinary action that you issue to employees when they are interrupting the regular facility operations.

### When Should I Give Warnings?
Warnings are given out on a case-by-case basis, but below are the situations in which you should definitely issue warnings (Non-comprehensive list):
- An employee is in your face, on your body or just being a general nuisance to you or others.
  - If the employee ignores the warning, you may terminate them after 5 seconds. If they stop after your warning and then do it again, you may terminate them immediately.
- An employee is attempting to destabilize the ECFR.
  - "Attempting to destabilize the ECFR" means contributing to raising the ECFR temperature while it is above 70,000 kelvin or lowering it when it is below 30,000 kelvin.
    - Actions that are considered destabilizing: messing with laser boost controls, coolant controls, E-coolant controls, exhaust system controls or trying to increase pump motor strain to dangerous levels.
    - Attempting to break the exhaust system by opening either of the valves to maximum without the exh. system coolant being active warrants 1 warning, after which the termination can be issued if the employee doesn't stop their actions.
    - If the Helium buildup level has surpassed 70%, security can take control of the exhaust system to reduce the buildup down to 30%. During this time, employees that are trying to interfere in security guards' duties should be warned 3 times before the termination. **Within this context, turning off the main coolant pumps, exh. system coolant or closing the Helium vent valve counts as interfering.**
  - In situations where the temperature is above 80,000 kelvin or below 20,000 kelvin, warnings are not required and KoS is allowed, if a control is tampered with that conflicts with your objective.
  - If there are multiple employees near a control that has been messed with, you may warn the one closest to the control.
- An employee is messing with Emergency Cooling Controls
  - Attempting to turn off the E-coolant pump power.
  - Attempting to waste E-coolant if it’s not necessary. Doing this is cause for immediate termination. Reactor Operators may use E-Coolant for faster completion of a task.
- An employee is trying to prevent you or others from shutting down the ECFR during Code Black. It doesn't require warnings, KoS is allowed if they try to stop you.
  - Actions that are considered as interfering: messing with laser boost control, coolant controls, E-coolant controls, trying to increase pump motor strain to dangerous levels, and closing the button box to stop other employees from pressing the button. (See [3.5 RO Cooperation](./3.5%20RO%20Cooperation.md))
- An employee is blocking the controls in such a way that others are unable to interact with them at all, no matter the employee's avatar.
  - You must warn an employee to back away from the controls. If they ignore your warning, you may terminate them. The time before killing an employee is up to discretion of the guard. If the situation is dire, you are permitted to kill them instantly.
- An employee is in a restricted area.
  - If it's **Code Green or Blue**, you must give an employee a warning and ample time to leave the area.
  - If it's **Code Orange, Red or Black**, you are permitted to terminate the trespassing employee on sight (without warnings).
  - If you are in active combat, you do not have to warn an employee immediately. However, when it is safe, you must take measures to get employees out of the restricted area in accordance with the conditions described above.
  - Areas that are considered restricted are: ventilation system, computer core zone (unless it's code black), warhead zone, and the archive room.
    - The FFD Server room is **not** considered a restricted area.

- An employee is impersonating security.
  - If an employee is impersonating security by issuing warnings or wearing a HSPS uniform, then you may issue them a warning to stop, however if they do not stop, you may terminate them.
  - If the employee is ranked Junior Guardsman or above, you can't give them warnings for impersonating security. However, if they are wearing an outfit similar to the morphs in the security spawn, please report them to a member of pre-command.

### When Can I NOT Give Warnings?
You should **NOT** give warnings for the following actions:
1. An employee is hacking, glitching, being disrespectful/toxic, or doing any action that would generally require moderation intervention. In those cases, make a report in #report-center
2. Someone is spamming the controls in a manner that requires said controls to be spammed.
3. An administrator (user on the admin team) is interfering with your duties. If this happens, please report said administrator to IRD leadership.

You are to issue up to a minimum of three verbal warnings before you are permitted to terminate a user for any reason listed above, unless stated otherwise.

If an employee does something that warrants a warning, you must issue a warning to them (unless stated otherwise), so that the enforcement of warnings by all guards is fair for everyone.
