## Restrictions
You are **not**, unless stated otherwise, allowed to;
1. Go into the facility vents - they are intended for CF (_Climbing onto the vent hatch is permitted for vent peeking, however standing on the vent hatch for prolonged periods of time is prohibited._).
2. Facilitate an instability event (reactor meltdown, FFD, etc.) (_Unless an administrator is conducting a server vote and this event won the vote, or if a pre-command member orders it._).
3. Have a Roblox avatar that in any way shape or form gives you an unfair advantage in combat (_Such as narrow avatars or massively altered hitboxes_).
4. Join the Chaos Forces team if the Security:CF ratio is 1:1.5 or less **and** backup was called (Such actions will result in a disciplinary action).
5. Leave the security team to purposely prevent data theft from occurring. This is a petty and cowardly tactic considering CF spent a good amount of robux or points on the gamepass/pack. **Do not be a sore looser.**
6. Control the ECFR (excluding exhaust system and e-coolant controls) unless any of the below conditions are met:
   - you are cooperating with Reactor Operators
   - you are preventing the pumps from straining
   - the "temperature low" or "temperature high" annunciators on the reactor monitoring screen are active
   - any of the red annunciators on the monitoring panels is active
   - controlling the ECFR is necessary for safety
   - any other rules allow you to use the controls (for example the exhaust system rules)
7. Play checkers outside of security zone.
8. Play checkers when it is currently Code Blue+ and there are Chaos Forces present on the server.
   - You are allowed to play checkers during Code Green/Blue when there are no Chaos Forces present. **Note: You are still responsible for the safety of the facility while playing checkers.** For example, if the employees melt the ECFR because they broke the pumps while you were playing checkers, you are liable to be punished for negligence.
9. Wear the Riot uniform, unless it's Code Orange or above.
