## R.O. Cooperation
At any point you may ask the Reactor Operators for cooperation and confirm it when the requirements below are met.
### Requirements
- You have clarified with the Reactor Operators what task they are trying to complete. 
- At least 50% of the RO team confirmed that they are trying to complete the task. (They may also specify how they plan to complete the task)
  - If 50% of the Reactor Operators confirm one task and the other 50% of the Reactor Operators confirm a different task, you are not allowed to do R.O. Cooperation.

After confirming the cooperation you should inform the Reactor Operators, for example by saying "Task 3 confirmed.".

You are allowed to warn employees if they attempt to grief the duties of the Reactor Operators. You may give warnings whenever they attempt to interfere with the current task, or if they are preventing/impeding the efforts of Reactor Operators to reach current task parameters.

If there are no CF and no griefers in-game you may permit Reactor Operators to increase the reactor temperature up to 75,000 Kelvin for faster completion of **task 2** <ins>under the Security supervision</ins>.

After 6 AM you are allowed to aid the reactor shutdown process for Task 5 if all other tasks are completed (failed tasks count as completed) or if the Reactor Operators vote to.

You must warn an employee a total of 3 times before terminating them.
- If an employee has been warned, and the task they were warned in was completed, the warnings carry over to the next task.
- Upon termination, their warnings “Reset”, however you may mark them as KOS when the Shift KoS requirements are met (See [3.3 Shift KoS](./3.3%20Shift%20KoS.md))	
